---
title: "org-refactor-heading"
weight: 3
---

treefactor-org-refactor-heading is a minor Org convenience function. It
helps you refactor a heading.

Imagine you have a complex heading that covers multiple topics in a
disorganized way.

You want to archive a copy of this heading to preserve its original
form, then analyze its contents into neatly categorized subheadings.

A classic example would be a chronological record of a sprint. You want
to preserve the chronological order for future reference, but you also
want to break it down into tasks and categorized reference matter.

treefactor-org-refactor-heading creates a copy of the original heading
and appends " | REFACTORED" to the title. It's an historical record now.
You don't need to refactor it again.

Then treefactor-org-refactor-heading opens a new window with an indirect
buffer showing an "INBOX" heading. This is where you will put the new
subheadings.

Now you can grab chunks of the original heading in the first window, and
move them to the second window. The goal is to improve the organization;
it doesn't have to be perfect. You can always do another refactoring
round after this.

To keep track of your progress, delete irrelevant text. No need to worry
about losing data, since everything's preserved in the " | REFACTORED"
archive copy.

Here's a gif demo:

[[/images/trs-org-refactor-heading--jabberwocky--output-2019-09-07-02.gif]]

The gif example heading was very simple. Anybody can break a poem into
stanzas without the help of a special function. But we all have complex
textwalls in our lives that beg for analysis. This function reduces the
friction of doing so, encouraging the user to regularly analyze his
complex headings into manageable form.

Org provides a org-archive-subtree command, but it doesn't work well
with the Treefactor workflow. Org moves archived subtrees to a different
file. Org assumes that the heading's original path will be relevant in
the future; Treefactor does not. Org assumes you don't want to move
archived headings around the directory tree. Org doesn't make it easy to
distinguish folded archive headings from normal headings. So your
choices are to refile the entire foo.org_archive file as an indivisible
unit, or else mix archived and unarchived headings.

With Treefactor, you don't need to know where you want to refile the
heading before you refactor it. You can refile REFACTORED headings the
same as any other heading, without needing to open a separate file to
find them. You'll never confuse them with current headings.

It is convenient to have REFACTORED headings filed together with the
current headings on a given topic. This makes it easy to look up
historical references, and easy to decide when a REFACTORED heading can
be safely deleted.

If all your archived headings are stored with each other, then you have
no idea whether your current information obsoletes them or not. The
relevant context is missing. So the Org way is suboptimal.
